[Music]
picture this you're about to endure a
six hour flight and right now before
departure you're sure that you are going
to be bored to tears after all it's six
hours of sitting still in your seat with
only short bathroom breaks sounds tough
but what about doing that for 18 hours
instead no I ain't kidding such flights
do exist and they're becoming
increasingly popular you see
however surprising it may be people
nowadays prefer to get from A to B
without any unnecessary stops but how
did it all start surely such long
flights haven't been around for too long
actually the first long-haul flight took
place 18 years ago on March 1st 2001
Continental Airlines had its first
nonstop trip covering a distance of
7,000 332 miles in the late morning the
aircraft left Newark and headed north it
traveled over the northern part of the
US then Canada and flew over the North
Pole then the plane went over Russia
Mongolia and China and a staggering 16
hours later it landed in Hong Kong
business people all over the world were
elated by the new development since it
opened so many possibilities for fast
travel a lot of business travelers have
frequent trips to those two leading
financial centres of the world but
before 2001 there hadn't been any
non-stop commercial flights that could
make such trips a more convenient funny
enough just several days after the first
flight from Newark United Airlines
started their own service to Hong Kong
but since their planes departed from JFK
Airport this air company set a new
record because the distance was about
two miles longer nowadays the champion
of long-haul travel is Singapore
Airlines with their flight from Newark
to Singapore just imagine the longest
commercial flight in the world lasts 18
hours and 45 minutes and covers a
distance of 9500 28 miles
you be up for such a long flight let me
know down in the comments
well if long-haul flights are so
frequent nowadays why do people still
search for connecting flights that's a
good question and the answer is money go
figure let's have a look at an ultra
long-haul flight say from Singapore to
New York for these flights Singapore
Airlines uses an Airbus a350 900 ulr
which stands for ultra long range there
are only seven of such airplanes in the
world and they can cover a distance of
90 700 miles without making a pit stop
but while the standard type can carry
253 passengers on board its ultra
long-haul version seats only 161 you may
think that's kinda weird but the thing
is that there are no economy passengers
on these flights at all business
passengers occupy 67 seats and 95 cater
to those in Premium Economy you see more
passengers and more seats mean more
extra weight for the aircraft and
carrying more weight leads to using more
fuel which means come on thank card pit
stops
see how it's all connected anyway
passengers and business and premium
classes pay much more for their tickets
so in the end airlines don't lose
anything from operating such insanely
long flights halfway around the world
but if you believe that an 18 hour
flight is the limit for long-haul travel
think again Qantas Airways is planning
to start non-stop flights between Sydney
and London by 2022 this idea has been
dubbed Project sunrise if they succeed
this aerial marathon across the Indian
Ocean will last for 20 hours and 20
minutes
bring some playing cards with you Qantas
has organised a deal between Boeing and
Airbus to create an airplane that could
fly for more than 20 hours without being
refueled
the aircraft would be able to carry
extra fuel that could be used in case of
emergencies and headwinds well that's
good to know sooner or later one of the
two major aircraft manufacturers will
create this plane but can the airline
convince potential passengers that
flying for 20 hours straight is a good
well Qantas is planning to offer its
passengers the most important thing on
long-haul flights and that's comfort
first the airline will tempt travelers
with a sleeping berths situated in the
planes cargo hole plus there will be an
onboard shim for some in-flight exercise
you'll also have an opportunity to relax
after your workout in an onboard bar if
you're of age of course and if you're
traveling with HIDs everybody will give
you annoyed looks I mean you'll be able
to leave them at the onboard nursery and
hit the gym or the bar well doesn't that
all sound fantastic and since long-haul
flights are gaining popularity and
providing their premium passengers with
comfort budget airlines are still trying
to cut their costs a new solution
suggested by Italian aviation designers
might be the key to even cheaper airfare
at first sight skywriter 2.0 the latest
airplane seat looks pretty uncomfortable
it kind of lean on this construction
rather than sit normally I bet that
after using this perch a regular budget
airline seat will feel as comfortable as
a business glass walk luckily these
seats are made for short haul flights
but still by the way the first version
of these seats had even less padding on
the other hand such seats will let
budget airlines fill their planes to the
brim there will be significantly more
people and less baggage since the design
doesn't look as if you can fit your bag
under the seat in front of you as a
result airlines will be able to increase
their efficiency and profit the truth is
that different designers have been
trying to work out ways to maximize
seating for years but so far none of the
offer designs have looked appealing to
travelers besides aviation authorities
haven't approved the purchase seat idea
yet and if they'd like my opinion well
never mind in any case for now we still
have to fly long hours without all those
awesome amenities and airplane seat
innovations actually in case you are
wondering here are the top 10 longest
flights you can look today the tenth
spot is taken by Etihad Airways flight
from Abu Dhabi to Los Angeles a plane
has to cover a distance of over 8,000
miles and the trip
self takes 16 hours and 30 minutes we've
only just begun my friend Delta Airlines
occupies the next position a trip from
Johannesburg to Atlanta takes 16 hours
and anywhere from 27 to 40 minutes
that's about 12 to 20 diaper changes for
the screaming baby in the middle seat
behind you
number eight rightfully belongs to the
flight from San Francisco to Singapore
occupied by United Airlines and
Singapore Airlines if you decide that
you need to get to one of these two
destinations a direct flight will get
you there just try to decide ahead of
time what you're gonna do for 16 hours
and 35 minutes next up is the flag
carrier of Australia's Qantas Airways
with its flight from Dallas Fort Worth
to Sydney the plane covers a distance of
over eight and a half thousand miles in
17 hours and 15 minutes yeah I hear that
a lot of kangaroos want to visit Texas
United's planes travel from Houston to
Sydney in 17 hours and 20 minutes that's
probably so the kangaroos can see more
of Texas before heading back home and
the same United Airlines used to fly 80
700 miles from Los Angeles to Singapore
in 17 hours and 15 to 50 minutes but
since November 2018 singapore airlines
have taken over this route the fourth
spot goes to Emirates this airline has a
flight from Dubai to Auckland which
takes 17 hours and 20 minutes to
complete my butt gets tired just
thinking about this one the flight from
Perth to London by Qantas is among the
top three longest flights the plane
travels a whopping nine thousand miles
in 17 hours and 40 minutes there are
movies on these flights right the silver
medal goes to quad our Airways which
operates a flight from Doha to Auckland
it takes 17 hours and 45 minutes to get
from Western Asia to New Zealand and
you've already heard about our reigning
champ of long-haul flights Singapore
Airlines with its almost 19 hour trip
from Newark to Singapore of course you
should understand that some of these
longest flights in the world may vary
from season to season and often depend
on whether airport traffic and climate
conditions
but that doesn't change the fact that
passengers have to spend lots and lots
of hours sitting on a blank so are we
close to inventing teleportation yet no
okay yes I'll keep waiting so what's the
longest flight you've ever taken ready
to sign up for one of these long-haul
flights from TDM to monotony share your
experience in the comments section below
don't forget to give this video a like
share it with fellow aviation
enthusiasts and click subscribe to stay
on the bright side of life
you